<p style="line-height:1.2">
<font size="6">
<b>道德经</b>
</font><br/>
<font size="4">
<b>Dao de Jing</b><br/>
<b>老子</b><br/>
<font size="3">
<b>Lao Zi</b>
<br/>
</font>
</p>
<p style="line-height:1">
<font size="3">
Your resource to learn the <b>Dao de Jing</b>.

Listen to each chapter in Mandarin, read the transcript in simplified characters and review the translation in English. If you need help to use this app, tap the <b>info</b> icon.
</font>
</p>

<div style="text-align: left !important; line-height:1.2">
<font size="3">

#### 1. See the translation:
To see the translation, you can toggle to the English or Chinese translation anytime by tapping anywhere on the text.

#### 2. Navigate through chapters:
You can scroll down the chapter list below and choose any chapter you like. When you click on a chapter, the audio will start. If you wish to deactivate audio when clicking on a chapter, just change the settings.

#### 3. About this app's author:
Hi, I am Fabian de Mortier. I could not find any practical resource to learn the Dao de Jing while being on-the-go. So I decided to code this simple app. I showed it to some friends and they were interested to use it, so I deployed it online for the benefit of all. If you have any comments or suggestions to improve it, feel free to send me an <a href="mailto:info@fabiandemortier.com" style="color:#bbc2fc">email</a>. For more info about me, visit <a href="https://www.fabiandemortier.com" style="color:#bbc2fc">www.fabiandemortier.com</a>

#### 4. About this Dao de Jing translation:
Dao de Jing is one of my all-time favorite pieces of ancient Chinese philosophy. Not fully satisfied with existing translations, I am proposing here a new translation in a format that facilitates learning. The Chinese version is written in simplified characters for the sake of modernity.
 
While many existing translations digress into fanciful spiritual interpretations, I privileged a straight-forward and close-to-the-original-text translation. In order to make it easier for learners that have limited knowledge of Taoist concepts, I attempted to keep the translation as simple and as logical as possible. This will leave readers plenty of room to make their own interpretation.

For those who want to dive deeper into the topic, <a href="https://terebess.hu/english/tao/_index.html" style="color:#bbc2fc">here is a database</a> with no less than 136 different translations of the Dao de Jing!

#### 5. What is the Dao de Jing?
The <b>Dao de Jing</b> is arguably among the most important pieces of text ever written in history. It is a beautiful classic poem of about 5,000 characters organized in 81 chapters. The Dao de Jing is traditionally credited to the 6th-century BC sage Lao Zi. However, certain details about the text's authorship, date of composition and date of compilation are still being debated among scholars. 

The Dao de Jing is a poetic attempt to describe the functioning of our universe. As part of this exercise, it explores the human condition and delves deep into the realm of consciousness. It proposes a series of virtues aimed at reaching ultimate wisdom, balance and peace within a world that ever appears to us as indomitable. 

What is so incredible about the Dao de Jing, is its unmatched depth of thought. It is arguably the most profound piece of text ever written, and it surprisingly continues to fit neatly into our modern and scientific perception of the universe. This suggests us that despites all human progress achieved in recent centuries; the depth of thought attained by ancient philosophers still remain unsurpassed. It then begs the fascinating question as to when and by whom it will be surpassed. 

For over 2,500 years, the Dao de Jing has inspired generations upon generations, and it remains to this day an endless source of inspiration for millions of people around the world. 

#### 6. How to learn the Dao de Jing?

The Dao de Jing may feel a little overwhelming at first, but it’s actually much easier to study than it appears to be. It’s all about the way you approach it. It’s easy to get discouraged when you start as its general meaning might be difficult to grasp on a first read. It does include ancient idioms and unusual vocabulary. In fact, even for native Chinese speakers, the Dao de Jing is not so straight-forward. But fear not, as it is easier than you may think!

The best way to learn the Dao de Jing is to approach it as a puzzle. Treat it as a game and enjoy the process. Go step by step, chapter by chapter, sentence by sentence, and word by word. This approach is really easy as each chapter is short, and it doesn’t take much time to analyze one. It’s important to try and understand each sentence of a chapter before moving on. Take your time. One chapter a day is a good pace.

#### 7. How to make sense the Dao de Jing?

To really get comfortable with the Dao de Jing, it is crucial to assimilate as many chapters as possible. Many concepts in the Dao de Jing are recurrent throughout the whole piece, and may be expressed in different manners, using different metaphors. While a particular chapter’s meaning might be difficult to grasp, as you gradually piece all chapters together, the overall work’s meaning eventually becomes apparent. 

Reading chapters sequentially is also beneficial. While each single chapter is a masterpiece of its own and can be enjoyed independently, the sequence of poems has been arranged in a specific way that really benefits the whole piece.

#### 8. Why is the Dao de Jing so important?

The Dao de Jing is part of the common human thought. It has deeply influenced the world just like other ancient master texts such as Homer’s epic poems, the ancient Indian philosophical texts Upanishads, the Bible, the Coran, the Analects of Confucius, and so many others. All these ancient master works have - to some extend - had an impact on every single person in the world. Some people have been influenced directly, but most of us have been influenced indirectly through cultural permeation. Over centuries certain concepts, ways of thought, and idioms have crossed cultural and language barriers to make their way to the most remote groups of people on the planet.

Overall, Asia is the region that has been the most influenced by the Dao de Jing. This is why exploring the Dao de Jing allows one to gain better insights into Asian cultures in general and into Chinese culture in particular. The Dao de Jing is one of the ancient wisdom texts that constitute the foundation of the Chinese culture. Not originating from Asia myself, I often get surprised to notice some ways of thinking, some reactions or some saying from Chinese people that are unconventional in Western culture, but match closely the Dao de Jing’s philosophy.

#### 9. Dao de Jing or Tao te Ching?

The simplified Chinese characters 道德经 can be romanized as 'Dao de Jing' or as 'Tao te Ching', just as 老子 can be romanized as 'Lao Zi' or as 'Lao Tzu'. 

'Dao de Jing' and 'Lao Zi" are spelled according to the Pinyin standard, which is a system of romanization of Chinese characters that was developed in the 1950s. It was then adopted by ISO (the Organization for Standardization) in 1982, and subsequently adopted by the United Nations. 

In Western literature, we often see the terms spelled as 'Tao te Ching' and 'Lao Tzu'. This way of spelling often originates from before the Pinyin standardization occurred, or is sometimes also used by some scholars under Taiwanese, Hong Kong or other local influences. 

Just like the majority of Chinese speakers, ISO and the United Nations, this app uses the standard simplified Chinese characters of 道德经 and 老子  and the standard Pinyin romanization of 'Dao de Jing' and 'Lao Zi'.


</font>
</div>